All right guys.
Welcome back to the Course so.
In the previous lecture we went over.
Coming up with your strategy description for your application we're using that theoretical idea.
Remember it's a mobile app that you open up so you are happy hours are around you.
And so what we did is we came up with the basic hypothesis appear basic description.
It's helpful to define what it is not and what it is.
And then down here we gave a pretty good guess at what we think our users will be and a pretty decent
guess that we think our goals should be.
I didn't try to take this on.
You can go crazy with it but just keep in mind it was all for you to help you keep track of what you're
supposed to be doing and later down the line so you don't completely forget an entire section of your
application.
All right so now we're going to move on to scope.
So what I do is just typically in the same document you can you just move on.
And here the point is is to get everything onto the page that you think you want in it for our purposes.
I'm going to keep this application simple and I help you try to understand the thought process I'm going
through as I do it.
But for a lot of you it could be a very complex application.
That's perfectly fine.
Just the point here is to put a lot on it.
Now a lot of times I will get these documents done or will publish them and send them to clients.
And the scope could literally be three to four pages.
I don't think that's necessarily helpful.
As an entrepreneur or someone who's trying to scrap this together very quickly and who's focusing on
getting the most return for their effort but that makes sense for Sprint kayak because we deal with
very high level clients you you're very large accounts and they want to see absolutely every piece of
detail they could because they're approving it.
Now as an individual trying to launch an idea trying to get out there quickly and not drive yourself
crazy in the process I suggest keep it simple keep it vague.
You can always come back and edit it more but just keep it keep in mind that like if you're spending
hours determining your scope generally not particularly helpful you're just going to regret it later.
So in the scope we're really all we're going to talk about here is what are the actual functions.
Now if you remember in a previous lecture we talked a little bit about tasks and functions.
It's listed as an extra lecture if you want to go check that out or we talk about persona's goals and
interactions and tasks.
OK so if you want to check it out there's an extra lecture we talk about persona's goals and tasks but
for the most part we're just talking about functions and task what it physically does the application
do.
And the way that I like to do is like to visualize like when I open up the app or I hit the web page
the home page of the web page.
What exactly do I see and what exactly happens in it.
It's also helpful to list out things that you don't want it to do.
Now one example of something that you might not want to do is have a count logons.
Now if you don't list out an account log in and you show that to someone who's giving you a quote for
design or development they're just going to assume that you don't need people to log in.
It's one of those things that you forget constantly.
So think about it.
Do you need users.
Is there a value to you having users in your application.
Now most of you out there probably would have some value in having users but it's maybe not something
you want immediately when you're launching a smaller version of your application.
Or maybe it's something that you just don't see any value in it right now.
And so it's just not worth dealing with.
Keep in mind that adds a decent amount of scope and it could be really simple but it actually makes
your application significantly more complex.
So what I'm gonna do straight up at the very beginning is I'm just gonna say do not need to collect
user information and create accounts and I put that in italics so now that this is a negative but that's
helpful for me and for anyone to show this to.
OK.
So let's imagine that we're hitting the front page of our application.
I am always a minimalist.
I'm always someone who follows us keep it simple stupid.
So the way I envision this working is it's a mobile application I pull it out of my pocket I open it
up and right off the bat it tells me what it does and then it allows me to look for them.
Happy hours today or tomorrow.
That's the way I'm envisioning this.
OK it's not perfect X but this is something you always add it later.
So what I would say is starts with a landing page of visual graphics.
OK.
Now what does that mean.
This is all web studio speak but a landing page.
It's actually it's a different term and mobile applications is going to call the landing page because
it's much easier understand when you open up the screen it's gonna have a loading screen or a page that
you land on.
And now a lot of people forget about this.
If I open an app do I go straight into the page where I'm signing up what happens in an intermediary
step what happens for that one to two seconds.
What actually gets displayed.
The best way of tackling that in my experience is to make a loading screen that is the same exact thing
as your landing screen just minus all of the input.
So if I had a in this case if I had a page and it just said welcome to mobile you know mobile happy
hours and then below it there chose today or tomorrow.
I would create a screen without those buttons and that would be my landing page and then I'd add the
buttons.
So I would start with a blank page of visual graphics and then I'll give some kind of a clue as to what
I think it should say OCHA to mobile or actually let's make this a little bit more catchy let's say
find happy hours now.
Right because we get to keep it really simple keep it action focused make sure everybody understands
what the getting out of it and also that's short.
So I can put that in on the screen very easily.
Remember the phone screens are quite small so it's a visual graphics find happiness.
Now that's roughly what will go for the first page was to tap obal and then we'll have it as I'm putting
in parentheses anything anything that I think are words that I'm going to use in the application.
You can give us whatever you want.
Remember how you did it so we'll say 4 2 4 4 right now.
And then also day for tomorrow.
OK.
So there you go.
That's the first page.
Now what happens when I click these buttons.
What do you think should happen.
I'm going to guess that since we hit a button for it right now or for tomorrow remember.
Now we're going to scroll up and look at our goals.
Remember those goal said see a visual representation of happy hours on a map near me.
So my guess is we should probably do that first.
What could happen is we'll say displays location pin.
Keep in parentheses.
Asked for your location information.
Remember guys you have to return something and Sulzer app uses it it's you have to ask for certain permissions
so don't forget the screens are in there.
You can use the default user interface that Apple gives you.
I just think they're ugly.
You can skin those.
Maybe that's something you have to deal with later.
Just remember that this is part of the process.
As for your location information and what they say allow say a location pin or the user is user is OK
and since that's the one singular function I'm going to list that as its own thing now within the same
screen and I write this conversationally so as you're reading from the top to the bottom it's kind of
a flow of consciousness.
Honestly that's a bad way of doing it.
But guys you can pick whatever organizational structure you can.
I'm more scatterbrained and this is just typically how I think everyone I work with hates it when I
do this but whatever.
I'm the boss so I'd say within last screen show icon for happy hours to qualify.
Here's a call within two miles.
OK now notice something in that last function what I wrote out was I said first of all we have to now
have described that we have an icon.
Second of all I said IIS or qualify now qualify.
Implies that there's some kind of algorithm that's going to determine what qualifies and what doesn't.
Now when you go and you get this developed you're going to have to define what does qualify mean.
OK in this course we're not doing that recruiting a prototype and that's not something you're going
to able to simulate because you need back and functionality to do that.
At that point it's not a prototype you are you are creating the application itself.
But keep in mind every time you use vague words like this you are implying more information.
If you leave those out a developer or even a designer will come back and say OK what's the qualification
criteria within 2 miles.
Again now that's something that I mentioned two miles.
It should probably be the case.
You can change that.
Now that implies that I should have the function that within that user should be able to determine what
the radius or the diameter around them should be when it comes to looking for happy hours because what
happens if someone opens it up.
They don't do anything they like so they should be able to change that.
So on map screen be able to change radius of search display
and then well it was all described roughly what I think the button should look down dropdown button.
You could do a radio button that takes up a lot more space.
You could do an input text button.
That's a disaster because if you do text or you ask them to type in a number you're just going to get
so many people there and to type in letters or try to search through it or whatever.
Keep it as simple as possible.
Also remember users they like to be they like you to hold your hand hold their hand through the entire
process.
You need to just show them this is what you need to do.
Don't give them so many options.
They have the possibility of getting it wrong.
OK.
So then after all some will say is click.
Icon will display a page about the business.
OK.
So that is pretty simple and pretty vague.
Now when I say display a page about the business I've identified a new screen.
Now what I'm going to have to do is go back and at least have to go and explain what exactly is going
to be on the page right.
You would never want to leave that just out there.
What does that mean.
There's so much information that could mean.
So let's define that we'll just say business information page and we'll make this its own little subhead
or
OK.
So on the business information page what do we want on here.
I'm going to guess that we should have let's everybody likes cover photos Twitter likes to use cover
photos.
Now Facebook uses cover photos.
Now if you follow other lecture we talk about comparable functions we talked a little bit about trying
to find the thought leaders in your space.
Ones that aren't necessarily comparable but the ones that are setting the design standards follow them
because they have set that standard for a reason.
Don't try to go out of your way to like try something quirky or totally different because it could very
easily backfire on you.
You might end up with an application that no one understands how to use.
So what I could say is cover photo of business.
This is getting a little bit more complicated.
What I could say is a paw on clicking cover photo we see a photo of space pictures and then past that
I want to know what are the happy hours.
And then we could say store phone number or so location number
and then pass that is honestly.
Anything that you could possibly want.
We could come up with a crazy function with a button that says text me the information and then all
you could do is click the button and it could text you the information.
That's one thing you can do I'm not sure if that's entirely useful.
Again I like to start really small and then add features as you get feedback from users.
But for the purposes of this it's easier if I actually design out some actual complexity to it so I
could say again remember we want to list our happy hour prices list happy hour prices now.
Be careful.
I could say something like a button for bookmarking.
Favorite place.
OK.
Now you might think that is innocuous.
You might think that's something that's really helpful.
It is helpful if you want to if you want to keep a list of all the favorite places you've been for happy
hours.
But keep in mind that means where is that.
Where is that bookmarking to get saved.
What's he going to save too if they're not creating user accounts how are they going to save a bookmark.
You can't just save it on the application itself.
That's something it's incredibly difficult to do.
And it would have a lot of problems with it so I wouldn't actually drop this feature because I don't
think that fits.
Now I'm at this point maybe are stumped as to what to add.
So let's go back to our strategy see if there's anything else that we might have left out.
OK within five minutes oping the app be able to find a happy and close proximity check.
I think that you could easily do this in five minutes.
It depends on your loading times tell the price of the happy hours.
Check your position of happy hours near me check see the deals are Demario.
No I mean it's virtually the same thing.
It's just going to have to have some kind of indication that it's tomorrow.
So what we could say is if we'll say if user searched for tomorrow then display at the top that text
tomorrow.
So they don't forget what they're looking at.
That would be a disaster if you could.
Tomorrow they look at a page they're looking at it and they have no visual represent reminder of that
it's for tomorrow.
They end up going today.
They're going to hate your application.
OK so that's a very very basic and I like keeping it very very basic.
You could go pages and pages and pages on this obviously.
Now what I've been implying is that there's an administration panel and what that means is like where
is all this information coming from.
How am I putting all of these happy hours in.
How does this system in take that information.
Also Where am I getting the business photos.
I'm creating a cow for the business itself and they're uploading their photos or am I doing it manually
from my side.
Keep in mind guys there's always two sides to this.
Where is the information coming from.
For the purposes of the application we're not going to do this.
But if I wanted to build out the Administration panel and scope what I just literally do is take every
function and think about what input variables are there where is this photo coming from.
So if I wanted to know where the photo is coming from I'd have to say ability to
ability to create new businesses ability to add photos to new businesses Innes's etc. etc. and I would
just go through all the information I had before.
We're not going to do this in this course just because you get the point but you understand that you're
going to run into a wall if you get all the way through your prototype and you're not aware of the fact
that you have to build an Administration panel.
Prototyping is mainly to get user feedback to pitch clients to pitch investors to show your friends
so you don't really need to build an Administration panel no one needs to know how you pull the strings
in the back.
We call this the Wizard of Oz experiment remember the Wizard of Oz.
The actual wizard at the very end used levers and mechanisms to create effects that made him look like
he was magical.
They don't need to know how you're doing it you don't need to pull the curtain back prototyping again
just to convey exactly what you're doing and be able to get better at communicating your idea.
So we can skip that but when you do get to the point where you're building this do not forget to put
that stuff back in when you go to a developer you're going to have to have every single function not
just the consumer facing functions.
OK so the other sections of this were actually the cover in video structure.
We're going to do a video and I'm going to show you how you can cover your structure very quickly using
a scratch pad and using some of the pre-made design templates that I'm uploading onto this course.
Skeleton we're going to do that in Pido go and balsamic so I can show you how those two are different
and how to get up and running very quickly and then surface again.
That's not something we're going to cover in this course.
It will be a follow up course but we will cover prototyping and we'll just use Design assets that we
have going forward.
Okay guys if you have any questions post in the group discussion if you think I skipped over anything
you think I missed anything you'd like to see in here or want me to clarify anything.
Just let me know otherwise we'll see in the next lecture.